---
title: Start with Visual Components
sidebar_label: Start with Visual Components
copyright: (C) 2007-2018 GoodData Corporation
id: start_with_visual_components
---

GoodData.UI comes with ready-made visual components listed in the Visual Components section. You can use these visual components as-is or customize them. You can also use the unique Visualization component that simply renders any chart that you create on the GoodData platform.

This article provides components examples and basic instructions on component usage.

**NOTE**: All examples in this section showcase the use of code generated by the [catalog-export](02_start__catalog_export.md) and assume that the
application is setup with BackendProvider and WorkspaceProvider as described in [connecting backend](02_start__connecting_backend.md) article.

## Responsive UI

Visual components are responsive by nature and take the whole space of their wrapper element. This behavior implicates that if you want to create a visualization with a specific `height` and `width`, you must specify those dimensions in the wrapper element. Otherwise, the visualization may not be visible.

### Example

```javacsript
<div style={{ height: 400, width: 600 }}>
    <AreaChart ... />
</div>
```

## Visual component props

The component props can be of the following types:

* **Style props** that define the style and interaction
* **Data props** that define what data to calculate and render

The style props define style and interaction of a visualization. For more information, see the articles in the Properties section.

The data props pass measures and attributes. These props are similar to the drag and drop sections in [Analytical Designer](https://help.gooddata.com/display/doc/Analytical+Designer) and use similar names such as "View by", "Stack by" and so on.
A data prop can be a single value or an array of either the `IMeasure` or `IAttribute` type, which is passed to the component as an object literal.

You can find more information about data props in the articles about individual components in the Visual Components section.

### Example
```js
<div style={{ height: 300 }}>
    <AreaChart
        measures={[Ldm.$TotalSales]}
        viewBy={Ldm.TimelineMonth.Long}
    />
</div>
```

## Visualization lifecycle

Visualization lifecycle is a series of events that take place between mounting and rendering a visualization. 

The following component props can be used as lifecycle callbacks:

| Property | Description | Parameters |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| onLoadingChanged | A function that is called when a loading state changes | ```{ isLoading: boolean }``` |
| onError | A function that is called when an error state changes | ```{ status: string, ...}``` |
| onExportReady  | A function that is called when the underlying data can be exported | `function` |
| onLegendReady  | A function that is called when a chart legend is rendered | ```{ legendItems: [...] }``` |

### Visualization rendered successfully

If a visualization is successfully rendered, the following events occur:

1. The visualization is mounted and rendered immediately using a ```LoadingComponent```.
2. onLoadingChanged callback is called with a parameter ```{ isLoading: true }```.
3. onError callback is called with a parameter ```{ status: "OK" }```.
4. onLoadingChanged callback is called with a parameter ```{ isLoading: false }```.
5. The visualization is rendered.
6. onExportReady callback is called with a function, which you can call to trigger the export
6. For visualizations that have legend, onLegendReady callback is called with a parameter ```{ legendItems: [...] }```.

### Visualization failed to render

If an error is encountered during rendering a visualization (for example, too much data to display), the following events occur:

1. The visualization is mounted and rendered immediately using a ```LoadingComponent```.
2. onLoadingChanged callback is called with a parameter ```{ isLoading: true }```.
3. onError callback is called with a parameter ```{ status: "OK" }```.
4. onLoadingChanged callback is called with a parameter ```{ isLoading: false }```.
5. onError callback is called with the following parameter:
```json
{
    "status": "DATA_TOO_LARGE_TO_DISPLAY",
    "options": {
        "dateOptionsDisabled": false
    }
}
```
6. The visualization is rerendered using an ```ErrorComponent```.
